this Banner unveiled on opening night
created a controversy the world's
largest documentary Festival has not
seen before its director initially
applauded but after pressure from
Israeli producers and filmmakers the
festival denounced the slogan and the
director
apologized Palestinian filmmaker basma
al- Sharif is one of dozens who have now
pulled out of the festival by denouncing
the slogan she feels the festival has
portrayed him as anti-Semitic the reason
why it is so sadistic and Savage the way
that Israel is going into Gaza and
murdering people is because they have
painted us as anti-semitic and that's
like the green light in the West for do
whatever you want like if these people
are anti-semitic you can do whatever you
want that's why this is dangerous this
Festival has long been one of the most
important platforms for free speech to
filmmakers worldwide now some accuse its
organizers of silencing and even
criminalizing them the country versy
shows how Europe's support for is war in
Gaza impacts many people in society here
including International cultural
platforms like this one filmmakers
accused the Festival of having double
standards because it took a firm stand
against Russia's Invasion into Ukraine
but failed to speak out against the
deaths of thousands of civilians during
Israel's bombardments in Gaza I do not
defend the way we did things it's a
serious question to be posed to entire
Society of Europe and to all of the cult
in Europe and it's absolutely it's a
center of free speech and it will remain
to be filmaker Muhammad jabali from Gaza
decided not to PLL out but he did
protest against the festival stance if
our freedom of expression and freedom of
speech are also being targeted we lost
everything we lost basically everything
everything is being destroyed and
damaged and like and we left alone and
the only way that left for us is our
voice deeply worried about his family
and friends in Gaza jabali not only
feels abandoned by Europe's leaders but
by what he describes as his ITA family
as well step fasten Al jazer
Amsterdam make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer